Software companies own huge amounts of user-generated data, be it photos, web 
searches, purchasing histories, or social connections. Many companies publish 
an API that allows the data to be shared with third parties, forming a network 
of companies who use and access data generated by the user. 

Although the user can grant access to a third party, many companies make it 
difficult for users to directly get access to data from the API. Theorectically,
users can develop their own third-party apps. However, this technical capability
is not shared by everyone. For example, requesting a developer key and writing
code is beyond the ability of the majority of Facebook users. 

The lack of access may be due to Facebook's interest in protecting its monopoly 
on user data, which unfortunately prevents users from further benefits that can
result from increased data accessibility. In particular, giving users better
control over their data will allow them to manipulate, understand, and use their
data in ways that satisfy their needs. 

Therefore, I believe there should exist an easier way for users to access and
use the data they create without granting access to third parties. With the
development of software that gives the first party the same ease of access as
the third party, consumers can directly accesses their own data. Their data need
not pass through the third party. 

At first sight, it appears that granting first-party access to the API requires
a shift in the policy of many platforms. However, it happens that the Facebook
API allows client-server communication without going through the third party. 
It is hence not only desirable but possible to create Facebook-platform apps
where data does not flow to a third party. 

As a proof of concept, I hope to develop an open-source Facebook app helps users
see how active their friends are on Facebook. The html/javascript app will run
in a browser and require no data to go through the third party server. 

If time permits, I will also attempt to develop an app that helps users download
all their photos from Facebook. I would also like to look in whether this is
possible using the OAuth protocol.

